# V3.0.0

## Changelog

Please read this carefully. This document contains extremely important information for:

- wallets
- exchanges
- custodians
- DEXs
- block explorers
- downstream consumers of THORChain data

### Block Scanning

Scanning / decoding blocks is an integral component of most integrations with THORChain.
There are several ways integrators can scan blocks today:

1. (**UNCHANGED**) Using the native `/thorchain/block` API (e.g. https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_api/thorchain/block). This returns the most recent block, annotated with rich events/attributes from THORChain's native transaction types (e.g. `swap` containing `liquidity_fee`, `pool_slip`, etc.) as well as Cosmos built-in transaction types (e.g. `MsgSend`). You can pass a `height` parameter (e.g. `https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_api/thorchain/block?height=18874607`) to retrieve the block results as of a specific block number. This is the advised approach for scanning THORChain blocks, as it removes the need to decode or parse events.
1. (**UNCHANGED**) Using the built-in Tendermint RPC `/block` endpoint (e.g. https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_rpc/block?height=18874424). Transactions are returned in `.block.data.txs[]` as base64-encoded bytes, which can be decoded using THORChain's protobuf definitions. It is generally not advised to decode transactions from bytes. Use the `/thorchain/block` endpoint, which allows you to skip this step.
1. (**BREAKING CHANGES**) Using the built-in Tendermint RPC `/block_results` endpoint (e.g. https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_rpc/block_results?height=18874424).
   - Formerly, `tx_results[].events[]` returned `key` and `value` as base64 encoded strings.
   - As of V3.0.0, `key` and `value` are automatically decoded human-readable strings.
   - Formerly, finalized events (e.g. `coin_recevied`, `coin_spent`, etc.) are returned in `.end_block_events[]`.
   - As of V3.0.0, finalized events are returned in `.finalize_block_events[]`, and their `key` and `value` are automatically decoded to human-readable strings.
1. (**BREAKING CHANGES**) The `/blocks/latest` API is renamed to `cosmos/base/tendermint/v1beta1/blocks/latest`.

### Transaction Lookup

1. (**UNCHANGED**) Native transactions, such as `MsgDeposit`, and their most common use case, swap transactions, can be looked up using the native `/thorchain/tx/details/{hash}` endpoint (e.g. https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_api/thorchain/tx/details/B129DA601753D4880800EBF505B74E6DD1DEC2B17DA3895CEF762D948A5A2399). This contains useful information such as outbound `tx_outs` and `actions`, which are not otherwise available on the built-in Cosmos transaction lookup endpoints. NOTE: this endpoint only works for swaps and other native transaction types. It does not index `MsgSend` and other built-in Cosmos types.
1. (**UNCHANGED**) Using the built-in `cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs/{hash}` (e.g. https://gateway.liquify.com/chain/thorchain_api/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs/793E68139BCEB01A8B17E3A1DCD2AC86386018AB0E2A18C3CEFAD251D19DCFC2) endpoint. This is a commonly-used endpoint for looking up details of standard Cosmos built-in transactions. Note: as per above, this does not include detailed information about the intent or side effects of a transaction.
1. (**BREAKING CHANGES**) The `/txs/{hash}` endpoint formerly proxied to the above URL (`/cosmos/tx/v1beta1/txs/{hash}`). This endpoint is deprecated and no longer available. Please use the fully qualified URL.
1. (**BREAKING CHANGES**) The `/txs?events=` API query key is renamed to `/txs?query=`.

### New Transaction Types

1. Formerly, sending native RUNE was possible only using THORChain's custom `/types.MsgSend`. THORChain now supports the native Cosmos bank MsgSend: `/cosmos.bank.v1beta1.MsgSend`. Both types can be used to send native RUNE.
1. `MsgSend` transactions sent to the `thorchain` bank module (mainnet address: `thor1v8ppstuf6e3x0r4glqc68d5jqcs2tf38cg2q6y`) with any valid memo will now be automatically proxied to the `MsgDeposit` handler. This means a swap, deposit, bond, unbond, or any other THORChain action can be initiated directly via `MsgSend`. This is useful for integrators wishing to bypass the need to construct custom `/types.MsgDeposit` transactions.
1. As of V3.0.0, the AppLayer will soon be going live. As such, `MsgSend` events will no longer be the only means by which native RUNE can move between accounts. Contracts will soon be able move RUNE. It is advised to not only parse the `MsgSend` events, but also check the `transfer` events in every block. This is in an important distinction, mainly applicable to wallets, exchanges and custodians.

### Message Signing / Broadcasting

1. (**BREAKING CHANGES**) CLI transaction submission with `--broadcast-mode=block` is no longer available. Use `--broadcast-mode=sync` or `--broadcast-mode=async` instead.
